Build out overview for Security plugin documentation (#1305)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security-plugin/index.md

  - /security-plugin/
---

# About Security for OpenSearch

Security for OpenSearch is built around four main features that work together to safeguard data and track activity within the cluster. Separately, these features are:

* Encryption
* Authentication
* Access control (authorization)
* Audit logging and compliance.

Used together they provide effective protection of sensitive information by putting it behind multiple layers of defense and granting or restricting access to information at different levels in the OpenSearch data structure. Most implementations use a combination of options for these features to meet unique and specific security needs.

## Features at a glance

The following topics provide general description of the features that define security in OpenSearch.

### Encryption

Encryption protects both data at rest and in transit. At rest, encryption secures sensitive information that’s kept as stored data. Some examples of stored data include indexes, logs, swap files, automated snapshots, and all data in the application directory. 

> Encryption in transit encrypts information moving to and from and within the cluster. OpenSearch uses the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol, which covers both client-to-node encryption (the REST layer) and node-to-node encryption (the transport layer). This combination of in-transit encryption guarantees that both requests to OpenSearch and the movement of information among different nodes is safe from tampering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Encryption in transit encrypts information moving to, from, and within the cluster. OpenSearch uses the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol, which covers both client-to-node encryption (the REST layer) and node-to-node encryption (the transport layer). This combination of in-transit encryption guarantees that both requests to OpenSearch and the movement of information among different nodes is safe from tampering.
```

You can find out more about configuring TLS in the [Configure TLS certificates](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/configuration/tls/) section.

### Authentication

Authentication is used to validate the identity of users and works by verifying an end user’s credentials against a backend configuration. These credentials can be a simple name and password, a JSON web token, or a TLS certificate. Once the authentication domain extracts those credentials from a user’s request it can check their validity against the authentication backend.

> The backend used for validation can be OpenSearch's built-in internal user database – used for storing user and roles configurations and hashed passwords – or one of a wide range of industry-standard identification protocols such as LDAP, Active Directory, SAML, and OpenID Connect. A common practice is to chain together more than one authentication method to create a more robust defense against unauthorized access. This might involve, for example, HTTP basic authentication followed by a backend configuration that specifies the LDAP protocol. See the [Backend configuration](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/configuration/configuration/) section to learn more about setting up the backend.

Reviewer 2: Link:

```
[Backend configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/configuration/configuration/)
```

> The backend used for validation can be OpenSearch's built-in internal user database – used for storing user and roles configurations and hashed passwords – or one of a wide range of industry-standard identification protocols such as LDAP, Active Directory, SAML, and OpenID Connect. A common practice is to chain together more than one authentication method to create a more robust defense against unauthorized access. This might involve, for example, HTTP basic authentication followed by a backend configuration that specifies the LDAP protocol. See the [Backend configuration](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/configuration/configuration/) section to learn more about setting up the backend.

Author: Makes sense to spell out first mention for LDAP and SAML.

> The backend used for validation can be OpenSearch's built-in internal user database – used for storing user and roles configurations and hashed passwords – or one of a wide range of industry-standard identification protocols such as LDAP, Active Directory, SAML, and OpenID Connect. A common practice is to chain together more than one authentication method to create a more robust defense against unauthorized access. This might involve, for example, HTTP basic authentication followed by a backend configuration that specifies the LDAP protocol. See the [Backend configuration](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/configuration/configuration/) section to learn more about setting up the backend.

Author: FYI, post-editorial review. Reduced them back to acronyms.
https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/pull/1305#discussion_r988990819

> The backend used for validation can be OpenSearch's built-in internal user database – used for storing user and roles configurations and hashed passwords – or one of a wide range of industry-standard, single-point identification protocols such as LDAP, Active Directory, SAML, and OpenID Connect. A common practice is to chain together more than one authentication method to create a more robust defense against unauthorized access. This might involve, for example, HTTP basic authentication followed by a backend configuration that specifies the LDAP protocol. See the [Backend configuration](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/configuration/configuration/) section to learn more about setting up the backend.

Reviewer: What do we mean by "single-point identification"? Could we just say "identification protocols"?

Author: Yes.

### Access control

> Access control (or authorization) generally involves selectively assigning permissions to users that allow them to perform specific tasks, such as clearing the cache for a particular index or taking a snapshot of the cluster. However, rather than assign individual permissions directly to users, OpenSearch manages access control by instead assigning permissions to roles and then mapping these roles to users. For more on setting up these relationships, see [Users and roles](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/access-control/users-roles/). Roles, therefore, define the actions that users can perform, including the data they can read, the cluster settings they can modify, the indexes to which they can write, and so on. Roles are reusable across multiple users, and users can have multiple roles.

Reviewer 2: Link:

```
[Users and roles]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/access-control/users-roles/)
```

> Access control (or authorization) generally involves selectively assigning permissions to users that allow them to perform specific tasks, such as clearing the cache for a particular index or taking a snapshot of the cluster. However, rather than assign individual permissions directly to users, OpenSearch manages access control by instead assigning permissions to roles and then mapping these roles to users. For more on setting up these relationships, see [Users and roles](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/access-control/users-roles/). Roles, therefore, define the actions that users can perform, including the data they can read, the cluster settings they can modify, the indexes to which they can write, and so on. Roles are reusable across multiple users, and users can have multiple roles.

Author: I agree, it's too wordy. But I think I can boil this down to ...
"However, rather than assign individual permissions directly to users, OpenSearch assigns these permissions to roles and then maps the roles to users."

> Another notable characteristic of access control in OpenSearch is the ability to assign user access within the domain through levels of increasing granularity. Fine grained access control (FGAC) means that a role can control permissions for users at not only the cluster level, but the index level, the document level, and even the field level. For example, a role may provide a user access to certain cluster-level permissions but at the same time prevent the user from accessing a given group of indexes. Likewise, that role may grant access to certain types of documents but not others, or even include access to specific fields within a document but exclude access to other sensitive fields. Field masking further extends the fine grained control of data access by providing options to mask certain types of data, such as a list of emails, which can still be aggregated but not made viewable to a role.

Author: I think it's better to chop this out, reduce word consumption requirements on the reader, and altogether remove the chance for confusion.

To learn more about this feature, see the [Access control](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/access-control/index/) section of security documentation.

### Audit logging and compliance

> Finally, audit logging and compliance refer to mechanisms that allow for tracking and analysis of activity within the cluster. This becomes particulalry important after events where the cluster suffers unintended data exposure. These logging features enable you to oversee changes made anywhere in the cluster – such as alterations to a domain or the modification of parameters – and monitor access patterns and requests of all types, whether valid or invalid.

Author: Rewrote after blushing from the comment.

How OpenSearch archives logging is configurable at many levels of detail, and there are a numbner of options for where those logs are stored. Compliance features also ensure that all data is available if and when compliance auditing is required. In this case, the logging can be automated to focus on data especially pertinent to those compliance requirements.

See the [Audit logs](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/audit-logs/index/) section of security documentation to read more about this feature.

## Other features and functionality

Security includes other features that make working in OpenSearch easier and more secure.

> One such feature is OpenSearch Dashboards multi-tenancy. Tenants provide a way to safely share Dashboards user configurations with other Dashboards users, including visualizations, index patterns, and other Dashboards objects. You can also set up roles that control access to your tenants.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One such feature is OpenSearch Dashboards multi-tenancy. Tenants provide a way to separate Dashboards user configurations with other Dashboards users, including visualizations, index patterns, and other Dashboards objects. You can also set up roles that control access to your tenants.
```

The current feature doesn't really provide a safe 'security' boundary, but instead its an partitioning mechanism.  In other systems this is called 'workspaces' which is I think more appropriate, but its already named :D 

When I think about a tenant models, I think about an apartment complex.  If you placed a chair in one apartment, it isn't assumed to be accessible in another apartment, things outside the apartment complex aren't generally considered.

However, the model is dashboards is slight different in that the item of interest are the fixtures within (index patterns, dashboards) but its also of interest is the view outside the apartment window (data) - which is common between all apartments.

Maybe @jimishs has thoughts on how we frame this?

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the update, this looks good to me

For more information on creating tenants, see [OpenSearch Dashboards multi-tenancy](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/access-control/multi-tenancy/).

> Another notable feature of Security is cross-cluster search. This feature provides a user with the ability to perform searches from one node in a cluster across other clusters that have been set up to coordinate this type of search. As with other features, cross-cluster search is supported by the OpenSearch access control infrastructure, which defines the permissions users have for working with this feature.

Reviewer 2: Link:

```
[OpenSearch Dashboards multi-tenancy]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/access-control/multi-tenancy/)
```

To learn more, see [Cross-cluster search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/access-control/cross-cluster-search/).

## Next steps

> To get started with Security, see the configuration overview in the [Security configuration](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/configuration/index/) section, which provides the basic steps for setting up Security in your OpenSearch implementation, including links to information about customizing security for your business needs.

Reviewer 2: Link:
```
[Security configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/configuration/index/)
```

  - /security-plugin/
---

# About Security for OpenSearch

> Security for OpenSearch is built around four main features that work together to safeguard data and track activity within the cluster. Separately, these features are:

Author: Yes, sounds better.

> * Encryption

Author: done

* Authentication
* Access control (authorization)
* Audit logging and compliance

> Used together they provide effective protection of sensitive information by putting the information behind multiple layers of defense and granting or restricting access to information at different levels in the OpenSearch data structure. Most implementations use a combination of options for these features to meet unique and specific security needs.

Author: Good call. Substituted "data" for "information" where applicable. 
Does "placing" sound good. "Positioning" suggests to me here there's some importance to its orientation.
Deleted "unique and".

## Features at a glance

> The following topics provide a general description of the features that define security in OpenSearch.

Author: good

### Encryption

Encryption protects both data at rest and in transit. At rest, encryption secures sensitive information that’s kept as stored data. Some examples of stored data include indexes, logs, swap files, automated snapshots, and all data in the application directory. 

> Encryption in transit encrypts information moving to, from, and within the cluster. OpenSearch uses the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol, which covers both client-to-node encryption (the REST layer) and node-to-node encryption (the transport layer). This combination of in-transit encryption guarantees that both requests to OpenSearch and the movement of information among different nodes is safe from tampering.

Author: I spelled out TLS mainly because I'm still looking it up myself. But I'm not attached. Will have either of the other two team members contribute an opinion.
RE: Guarantee. Would not have known that. Thanks.

> Encryption in transit encrypts information moving to, from, and within the cluster. OpenSearch uses the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol, which covers both client-to-node encryption (the REST layer) and node-to-node encryption (the transport layer). This combination of in-transit encryption guarantees that both requests to OpenSearch and the movement of information among different nodes is safe from tampering.

Reviewer 4: See "Don't spell out common acronyms" here: https://alpha.www.docs.aws.a2z.com/awsstyleguide/latest/styleguide/acronyms.html.

> Encryption in transit encrypts information moving to, from, and within the cluster. OpenSearch uses the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol, which covers both client-to-node encryption (the REST layer) and node-to-node encryption (the transport layer). This combination of in-transit encryption guarantees that both requests to OpenSearch and the movement of information among different nodes is safe from tampering.

Author: Hmm, I guess I'll leave them spelled out for now, since it's the overview page. But only here. Thanks.

You can find out more about configuring TLS in the [Configure TLS certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/configuration/tls/) section.

### Authentication

> Authentication is used to validate the identity of users and works by verifying an end user’s credentials against a backend configuration. These credentials can be a simple name and password, a JSON web token, or a TLS certificate. Once the authentication domain extracts those credentials from a user’s request it can check their validity against the authentication backend.

Author: Comma added. At least for basic authentication, the username will be half of the credentials. But I think it's accurate to refer the user's credentials, the user's request.

> The backend used for validation can be OpenSearch's built-in internal user database – used for storing user and roles configurations and hashed passwords – or one of a wide range of industry-standard identification protocols such as Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP), Active Directory, Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML), and OpenID Connect. A common practice is to chain together more than one authentication method to create a more robust defense against unauthorized access. This might involve, for example, HTTP basic authentication followed by a backend configuration that specifies the LDAP protocol. See the [Backend configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/configuration/configuration/) section to learn more about setting up the backend.

Author: Made changes except for the spell-out issues. Another reviewer suggested spelling out theses acronyms. So it sounds like preference. I see both sides. If it turns out to reflect badly on the tone at some point, we can ditch them and leave just the acronyms.

> The backend used for validation can be OpenSearch's built-in internal user database – used for storing user and roles configurations and hashed passwords – or one of a wide range of industry-standard identification protocols such as Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP), Active Directory, Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML), and OpenID Connect. A common practice is to chain together more than one authentication method to create a more robust defense against unauthorized access. This might involve, for example, HTTP basic authentication followed by a backend configuration that specifies the LDAP protocol. See the [Backend configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/configuration/configuration/) section to learn more about setting up the backend.

Reviewer 4: See "Don't spell out common acronyms" here: https://alpha.www.docs.aws.a2z.com/awsstyleguide/latest/styleguide/acronyms.html. I don't mind if we keep them, as I'm always in favor of clarity, but you might have the other reviewer review the style guide :-).

### Access control

> Access control (or authorization) generally involves selectively assigning permissions to users that allow them to perform specific tasks, such as clearing the cache for a particular index or taking a snapshot of the cluster. However, rather than assign individual permissions directly to users, OpenSearch assigns these permissions to roles and then maps the roles to users. For more on setting up these relationships, see [Users and roles]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/access-control/users-roles/). Roles, therefore, define the actions that users can perform, including the data they can read, the cluster settings they can modify, the indexes to which they can write, and so on. Roles are reusable across multiple users, and users can have multiple roles.

Author: good

> Another notable characteristic of access control in OpenSearch is the ability to assign user access through levels of increasing granularity. Fine grained access control (FGAC) means that a role can control permissions for users at not only the cluster level, but the index level, the document level, and even the field level. For example, a role may provide a user access to certain cluster-level permissions but at the same time prevent the user from accessing a given group of indexes. Likewise, that role may grant access to certain types of documents but not others, or even include access to specific fields within a document but exclude access to other sensitive fields. Field masking further extends the fine grained control of data access by providing options to mask certain types of data, such as a list of emails, which can still be aggregated but not made viewable to a role.

Author: Added Hyphens.
What do you think of: "... at not only the cluster level but also the index level..." since the preposition "at" precedes the phrase? (commutes to the second element of the phrase). Just trying to keep the language flowing.
No comma after "not others": I'm worried that running two of the same conjunctions together in one sentence (four ideas) without a pause makes for a mouthful. I don't want risk having the reader give up. If it reads fine to you, I'll delete it.
Yes, good idea (FGAC)

> To learn more about this feature, see the [Access control]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/access-control/index/) section of security documentation.

Author: OK

### Audit logging and compliance

> Finally, audit logging and compliance refer to mechanisms that allow for tracking and analysis of activity within the cluster. This is important after events in which sensitive data is breached (unauthorized access) or suffers unintended exposure, as when data is sent to an unsecure location and left vulnerable. However, audit logging can be just as valuable a tool for assessing excessive loads on the cluster or surveying trends for a given task. This feature allows you to oversee changes made anywhere in the cluster and track access patterns and API requests of all types, whether valid or invalid.

Author: "a" cluster: changed.
Rewrote the second sentence: "This is important after data breaches (unauthorized access) or when data suffers unintended exposure, as could happen when the data is left vulnerable in an unsecured location.
Changed to "review". I think "manage" might imply an ability to further manipulate changes after they're made.

How OpenSearch archives logging is configurable at many levels of detail, and there are a number of options for where those logs are stored. Compliance features also ensure that all data is available if and when compliance auditing is required. In this case, the logging can be automated to focus on data especially pertinent to those compliance requirements.

> See the [Audit logs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/audit-logs/index/) section of security documentation to read more about this feature.

Reviewer 4: Insert "the" before "security".

Author: done

## Other features and functionality

> Security includes other features that make working in OpenSearch easier.

Author: How about: "OpenSearch includes other features that complement the security infrastructure."?

### Dashboards multi-tenancy

> One such feature is OpenSearch Dashboards multi-tenancy. Tenants are work spaces that include visualizations, index patterns, and other Dashboards objects, which can be shared with other Dashboards users. OpenSearch leverages roles to manage accesss to tenants and safely make them available to other Dashboards users.

Reviewer 4: I think this should be "...and other Dashboards objects and can be shared...". In the third sentence, remove the extra s.

Author: How's this: "Tenants are work spaces that include visualizations, index patterns, and other Dashboards objects. Multi-tenancy allows for the sharing of tenants among users of Dashboards and leverages OpenSearch roles to manage access to tenants and safely make them available to others."

For more information on creating tenants, see [OpenSearch Dashboards multi-tenancy]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/access-control/multi-tenancy/).

### Cross-cluster search

> Another notable feature is cross-cluster search. This feature provides a user with the ability to perform searches from one node in a cluster across other clusters that have been set up to coordinate this type of search. As with other features, cross-cluster search is supported by the OpenSearch access control infrastructure, which defines the permissions users have for working with this feature.

Reviewer 4: "users" instead of "a user"?

Author: done

To learn more, see [Cross-cluster search]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/access-control/cross-cluster-search/).

## Next steps

> To get started with security, see the configuration overview in the [Security configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/configuration/index/) section, which provides the basic steps for setting up security in your OpenSearch implementation, including links to information about customizing security for your business needs.

Reviewer 4: We need a word after the first instance of "security". How about "management" or just "configuration"? Replace "implementation, including" with "implementation and includes".

Author: How about simply: "To get started, see..."?
